tools/xen/README.md, before:

Getting Started With XenServer 5.6 and Devstack
===============================================
The purpose of the code in this directory it to help developers bootstrap
a XenServer 5.6 (or greater) + Openstack development environment.  This file gives
some pointers on how to get started.

Xenserver is a Type 1 hypervisor, so it needs to be installed on bare metal.
The Openstack services are configured to run within a "privileged" virtual
machine on the Xenserver host (called OS domU). The VM uses the XAPI toolstack
to communicate with the host.

Step 1: Install Xenserver
------------------------
Install XenServer 5.6+ on a clean box. You can get XenServer by signing
up for an account on citrix.com, and then visiting:
https://www.citrix.com/English/ss/downloads/details.asp?downloadId=2311504&productId=683148

For details on installation, see: http://wiki.openstack.org/XenServer/Install

Here are some sample Xenserver network settings for when you are just
getting started (I use settings like this with a lappy + cheap wifi router):

* XenServer Host IP: 192.168.1.10
* XenServer Netmask: 255.255.255.0
* XenServer Gateway: 192.168.1.1
* XenServer DNS: 192.168.1.1

Step 2: Download devstack
--------------------------
On your XenServer host, run the following commands as root:

wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/openstack-dev/devstack/zipball/master
unzip -o master -d ./devstack
cd devstack/*/

Step 3: Configure your localrc inside the devstack directory
------------------------------------------------------------
Devstack uses a localrc for user-specific configuration.  Note that
the XENAPI_PASSWORD must be your dom0 root password.
Of course, use real passwords if this machine is exposed.

    cat > ./localrc <<EOF
    MYSQL_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    SERVICE_TOKEN=my_super_secret
    ADMIN_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    SERVICE_PASSWORD=$ADMIN_PASSWORD
    RABBIT_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # This is the password for your guest (for both stack and root users)
    GUEST_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # IMPORTANT: The following must be set to your dom0 root password!
    XENAPI_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # Do not download the usual images yet!
    IMAGE_URLS=""
    # Explicitly set virt driver here
    VIRT_DRIVER=xenserver
    # Explicitly set multi-host
    MULTI_HOST=1
    # Give extra time for boot
    ACTIVE_TIMEOUT=45
    # Interface on which you would like to access services
    HOST_IP_IFACE=ethX
    # First time Ubuntu network install params
    NETINSTALLIP="dhcp"
    NAMESERVERS=""
    NETMASK=""
    GATEWAY=""
    EOF

Step 4: Run ./install_os_domU.sh from the tools/xen directory
-------------------------------------------------------------
cd tools/xen
./install_os_domU.sh

Once this script finishes executing, log into the VM (openstack domU)
that it installed and tail the run.sh.log file. You will need to wait
until it run.sh has finished executing.


Step 5: Do cloudy stuff!
--------------------------
* Play with horizon
* Play with the CLI
* Log bugs to devstack and core projects, and submit fixes!

Commit message:

XenServer install: use MGT network for services
The new install was using the PUB network for OpenStack
services. Changing this to be the MGT network, so that the
Xen host need not be on the public network.

Change-Id: Id9590693dc979ddb431bad96d1aa863f38de7521

tools/xen/README.md, after:

Getting Started With XenServer 5.6 and Devstack
===============================================
The purpose of the code in this directory it to help developers bootstrap
a XenServer 5.6 (or greater) + Openstack development environment.  This file gives
some pointers on how to get started.

Xenserver is a Type 1 hypervisor, so it needs to be installed on bare metal.
The Openstack services are configured to run within a "privileged" virtual
machine on the Xenserver host (called OS domU). The VM uses the XAPI toolstack
to communicate with the host.

Step 1: Install Xenserver
------------------------
Install XenServer 5.6+ on a clean box. You can get XenServer by signing
up for an account on citrix.com, and then visiting:
https://www.citrix.com/English/ss/downloads/details.asp?downloadId=2311504&productId=683148

For details on installation, see: http://wiki.openstack.org/XenServer/Install

Here are some sample Xenserver network settings for when you are just
getting started (I use settings like this with a lappy + cheap wifi router):

* XenServer Host IP: 192.168.1.10
* XenServer Netmask: 255.255.255.0
* XenServer Gateway: 192.168.1.1
* XenServer DNS: 192.168.1.1

NOTE
----
When installing XenServer, ensure that the network you select as your primary
management interface (XenAPI) is the same as your management network. In the
very least, ensure that xapi is listening on your management network.

Step 2: Download devstack
--------------------------
On your XenServer host, run the following commands as root:

wget --no-check-certificate https://github.com/openstack-dev/devstack/zipball/master
unzip -o master -d ./devstack
cd devstack/*/

Step 3: Configure your localrc inside the devstack directory
------------------------------------------------------------
Devstack uses a localrc for user-specific configuration.  Note that
the XENAPI_PASSWORD must be your dom0 root password.
Of course, use real passwords if this machine is exposed.

    cat > ./localrc <<EOF
    MYSQL_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    SERVICE_TOKEN=my_super_secret
    ADMIN_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    SERVICE_PASSWORD=$ADMIN_PASSWORD
    RABBIT_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # This is the password for your guest (for both stack and root users)
    GUEST_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # IMPORTANT: The following must be set to your dom0 root password!
    XENAPI_PASSWORD=my_super_secret
    # Do not download the usual images yet!
    IMAGE_URLS=""
    # Explicitly set virt driver here
    VIRT_DRIVER=xenserver
    # Explicitly set multi-host
    MULTI_HOST=1
    # Give extra time for boot
    ACTIVE_TIMEOUT=45
    # Interface on which you would like to access services
    MGT_IP_IFACE=ethX
    # First time Ubuntu network install params
    NETINSTALLIP="dhcp"
    NAMESERVERS=""
    NETMASK=""
    GATEWAY=""
    EOF

Step 4: Run ./install_os_domU.sh from the tools/xen directory
-------------------------------------------------------------
cd tools/xen
./install_os_domU.sh

Once this script finishes executing, log into the VM (openstack domU)
that it installed and tail the run.sh.log file. You will need to wait
until it run.sh has finished executing.


Step 5: Do cloudy stuff!
--------------------------
* Play with horizon
* Play with the CLI
* Log bugs to devstack and core projects, and submit fixes!
