roles/write-devstack-local-conf/README.rst, before:

Write the local.conf file for use by devstack

**Role Variables**

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_base_dir
   :default: /opt/stack

   The devstack base directory.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_local_conf_path
   :default: {{ devstack_base_dir }}/devstack/local.conf

   The path of the local.conf file.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_localrc
   :type: dict

   A dictionary of variables that should be written to the localrc
   section of local.conf.  The values (which are strings) may contain
   bash shell variables, and will be ordered so that variables used by
   later entries appear first.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_local_conf
   :type: dict

   A complex argument consisting of nested dictionaries which combine
   to form the meta-sections of the local_conf file.  The top level is
   a dictionary of phases, followed by dictionaries of filenames, then
   sections, which finally contain key-value pairs for the INI file
   entries in those sections.

   The keys in this dictionary are the devstack phases.

   .. zuul:rolevar:: [phase]
      :type: dict

      The keys in this dictionary are the filenames for this phase.

      .. zuul:rolevar:: [filename]
         :type: dict

         The keys in this dictionary are the INI sections in this file.

         .. zuul:rolevar:: [section]
            :type: dict

            This is a dictionary of key-value pairs which comprise
            this section of the INI file.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_services
   :type: dict

   A dictionary mapping service names to boolean values.  If the
   boolean value is ``false``, a ``disable_service`` line will be
   emitted for the service name.  If it is ``true``, then
   ``enable_service`` will be emitted.  All other values are ignored.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_plugins
   :type: dict

   A dictionary mapping a plugin name to a git repo location.  If the
   location is a non-empty string, then an ``enable_plugin`` line will
   be emmitted for the plugin name.

Commit message:

Backport changes of zuul jobs and definitions to pike
Mostly from current master, but without unit tests.
If this is ever accepted, it would require at least
a better commit message listing the backported patches
and the original authors.

This commit squashes together the following patches:
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/515209/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/524224/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/524689/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/526114/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/526935/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/526936/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/527027/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/527106/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/528002/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/528076/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/528359/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/529341/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/529944/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/531208/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/535522/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/535879/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/536611/
https://review.openstack.org/#/c/539686/

Most of the work was done by Andrea Frittoli and
Monty Taylor. Below is the complete list of original
authors (hopefully correctly ordered by surname):
Co-Authored-By: Clark Boylan <clark.boylan@gmail.com>
Co-Authored-By: Andrea Frittoli <andrea.frittoli@gmail.com>
Co-Authored-By: yong sheng gong <gong.yongsheng@99cloud.net>
Co-Authored-By: Jens Harbott <j.harbott@x-ion.de>
Co-Authored-By: Andreas Jaeger <aj@suse.com>
Co-Authored-By: Monty Taylor <mordred@inaugust.com>
Co-Authored-By: Dean Troyer <dtroyer@gmail.com>

Change-Id: Ia93bd480f260ee2c8bf56131e59a440a176259ee

roles/write-devstack-local-conf/README.rst, after:

Write the local.conf file for use by devstack

**Role Variables**

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_base_dir
   :default: /opt/stack

   The devstack base directory.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_local_conf_path
   :default: {{ devstack_base_dir }}/devstack/local.conf

   The path of the local.conf file.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_localrc
   :type: dict

   A dictionary of variables that should be written to the localrc
   section of local.conf.  The values (which are strings) may contain
   bash shell variables, and will be ordered so that variables used by
   later entries appear first.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_local_conf
   :type: dict

   A complex argument consisting of nested dictionaries which combine
   to form the meta-sections of the local_conf file.  The top level is
   a dictionary of phases, followed by dictionaries of filenames, then
   sections, which finally contain key-value pairs for the INI file
   entries in those sections.

   The keys in this dictionary are the devstack phases.

   .. zuul:rolevar:: [phase]
      :type: dict

      The keys in this dictionary are the filenames for this phase.

      .. zuul:rolevar:: [filename]
         :type: dict

         The keys in this dictionary are the INI sections in this file.

         .. zuul:rolevar:: [section]
            :type: dict

            This is a dictionary of key-value pairs which comprise
            this section of the INI file.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_base_services
   :type: list
   :default: {{ base_services | default(omit) }}

   A list of base services which are enabled. Services can be added or removed
   from this list via the ``devstack_services`` variable. This is ignored if
   ``base`` is set to ``False`` in ``devstack_services``.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_services
   :type: dict

   A dictionary mapping service names to boolean values.  If the
   boolean value is ``false``, a ``disable_service`` line will be
   emitted for the service name.  If it is ``true``, then
   ``enable_service`` will be emitted. All other values are ignored.

   The special key ``base`` can be used to enable or disable the base set of
   services enabled by default. If ``base`` is found, it will processed before
   all other keys. If its value is ``False`` a ``disable_all_services`` will be
   emitted; if its value is ``True`` services from ``devstack_base_services``
   will be emitted via ``ENABLED_SERVICES``.

.. zuul:rolevar:: devstack_plugins
   :type: dict

   A dictionary mapping a plugin name to a git repo location.  If the
   location is a non-empty string, then an ``enable_plugin`` line will
   be emmitted for the plugin name.
